# Android Application 
## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This is a weight tracking application which allows a user to track their weight gain or loss. The users required a functional application which would allow them to login, store weights in a database, display their weights in a chart, set a goal weight, and enter new weights. 
## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The first screen that was required was a login screen. This screen allowed the user to enter a username and password to login to an already created account, or click on a button to create a new account. This button took them to the "create an account" screen, where they could enter new credentials to be stored in the database and allow them to login. Once logged in, the user was taken to the homepage where they would be able to enter new weights and view thier weight chart. My design was meant to be simple and easy to use. The user can easily view the data that they need on the homepage and easily interact with the applicaiton. 
## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
To begin, I planned out how to develop the application. I actually wrote down on paper how my screens would be laid out. Then, I began developing one screen at a time. I did not move onto the next screen until I ensured that the previous screen was functional. 
## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
After each change to the code, I would run the emulator and check that the code was functioning properly. This saved me many times from going too far and completing more code and then having to go back and change everything because of one small error. Testing often saved me a lot of time and frustration. 
## Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Honestly, the only challenge that I had was during the development process. Trying to create the databases was confusing to me, so I had to do a lot of research and watch many YouTube videos to piece it together. 
## In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I think the best component that I was successful in developing was the login function. My application successfully allows the user to create an account which is stored in a database, and then login once the account is created. I even added popups which would tell the user if they were logged in successfully, already had an account, or left the fields empty. 
